README.md, before:

# feedtube
A feed video downloader for Youtube

Feedtube is for you if:

- You are a fan of RSS
- You don't like using the Youtube website for some reason (broken js, privacy, or other) but want to keep a list of channel subscriptions
- You need to download videos and watch them offline
- You want to watch videos without ads. Note that, as such, video creators and Youtube don't get paid


## Dependencies

[xmlstarlet](http://xmlstar.sourceforge.net) and [youtube-dl](https://github.com/rg3/youtube-dl/) (plus [ffmpeg](http://ffmpeg.org))


## Setup

1. Just download `feedtube.sh` or clone the repo: `git clone https://github.com/cfenollosa/feedtube`
2. Download your Youtube subscriptions. Follow the official instructions: https://support.google.com/youtube/answer/6224202?hl=en
3. Place the downloaded file on the same folder as feedtube
4. Run `./feedtube.sh`

That's it! Feedtube will convert the youtube xml file to its own format (`.list.csv`) and keep track of videos.


## Running Feedtube

Running `feedtube.sh` will download new videos for your subscriptions. There's nothing more to it :)

You may run it with cron, or manually. The only caveat is that it doesn't support multiple instances running at the same time. Be careful not to overlap cron executions; give it plenty of time in case it needs to download huge files.

Downloaded filenames have the format: `[Channel name] - Video name`. File timestamp is set by `youtube-dl` as the video upload date.


## Configuration

- `-q` Quiet mode. No output is generated, except errors
- `<Youtube URL>` Single video run. Downloads the selected video and exits. No feeds are parsed.

You can also edit the script to change parameters for `youtube-dl`, like the maximum quality (set to 1080p by default) or video format. [Read youtube-dl documentation](https://github.com/rg3/youtube-dl/blob/master/README.md#readme) for more information.


## Adding new subscriptions

Edit `.list.csv` with a text editor and add a new line, with the format:

`Channel title <TAB> channel RSS address`

IMPORTANT NOTE: Next time you run `feedtube.sh`, it will download all videos for that channel. If you don't want that (I don't), just Ctrl-C as the download starts. Remove any temporal files when the script ends.

This will be fixed in a future release.


## Watching videos

Downloaded videos can be watched using any standard video player.

I use [Miro](http://www.getmiro.com) to watch videos. I have set it up to "watch" the downloads folder for new videos, and lets me organize it by date, size, and others. Furthermore, the video player keeps track of the time you stop watching and lets you resume, like Youtube.

You can also simulate Youtube's sorting options using your OS file explorer:

- Sort by channel: Sort by filename
- Sort by upload date: Sort by file date


# Changelog

- 1.0, 2018-04-29. First working release

Commit message:

Updated documentation for new variable ASCII_ONLY

README.md, after:

# feedtube
A feed video downloader for Youtube

Feedtube is for you if:

- You are a fan of RSS
- You don't like using the Youtube website for some reason (broken js, privacy, or other) but want to keep a list of channel subscriptions
- You need to download videos and watch them offline
- You want to watch videos without ads. Note that, as such, video creators and Youtube don't get paid


## Dependencies

[xmlstarlet](http://xmlstar.sourceforge.net) and [youtube-dl](https://github.com/rg3/youtube-dl/) (plus [ffmpeg](http://ffmpeg.org))


## Setup

1. Just download `feedtube.sh` or clone the repo: `git clone https://github.com/cfenollosa/feedtube`
2. Download your Youtube subscriptions. Follow the official instructions: https://support.google.com/youtube/answer/6224202?hl=en
3. Place the downloaded file on the same folder as feedtube
4. Run `./feedtube.sh`

That's it! Feedtube will convert the youtube xml file to its own format (`.list.csv`) and keep track of videos.


## Running Feedtube

Running `feedtube.sh` will download new videos for your subscriptions. There's nothing more to it :)

You may run it with cron, or manually. The only caveat is that it doesn't support multiple instances running at the same time. Be careful not to overlap cron executions; give it plenty of time in case it needs to download huge files.

Downloaded filenames have the format: `[Channel name] - Video name`. File timestamp is set by `youtube-dl` as the video upload date.


## Configuration

- `-q` Quiet mode. No output is generated, except errors
- `<Youtube URL>` Single video run. Downloads the selected video and exits. No feeds are parsed.

Edit `feedtube.sh` to access advanced settings:

- `ASCII_ONLY="yes"`: Output video filename will only contain ascii characters. Use for compatibility with some systems/players like Miro. Non-ascii characters will be ignored. This can be a problem in some languages or locales. Set it to `""` (empty) to enable UTF-8 characters in file names.

You can also edit the script to change parameters for `youtube-dl`, like the maximum quality (set to 1080p by default) or video format. [Read youtube-dl documentation](https://github.com/rg3/youtube-dl/blob/master/README.md#readme) for more information.


## Adding new subscriptions

Edit `.list.csv` with a text editor and add a new line, with the format:

`Channel title <TAB> channel RSS address`

IMPORTANT NOTE: Next time you run `feedtube.sh`, it will download all videos for that channel. If you don't want that (I don't), just Ctrl-C as the download starts. Remove any temporal files when the script ends.

This will be fixed in a future release.


## Watching videos

Downloaded videos can be watched using any standard video player.

I use [Miro](http://www.getmiro.com) to watch videos. I have set it up to "watch" the downloads folder for new videos, and lets me organize it by date, size, and others. Furthermore, the video player keeps track of the time you stop watching and lets you resume, like Youtube.

You can also simulate Youtube's sorting options using your OS file explorer:

- Sort by channel: Sort by filename
- Sort by upload date: Sort by file date


# Changelog

- 1.0, 2018-04-29. First working release
